README.md, before:

# Introduction to ROS -- Basic Examples

This repository contains **basic ROS (Robot Operating System) code** to help beginners get started with ROS concepts such as nodes, topics, and packages.

The code is intended as an introduction for students learning ROS for the first time.  
The examples are tested on **ROS 2 Humble**.  

👉 It is recommended to run these examples using Docker:  
[AI-Robot-Book-Humble/docker-ros2-desktop-ai-robot-book-humble](https://github.com/AI-Robot-Book-Humble/docker-ros2-desktop-ai-robot-book-humble)

---

## Setup Instructions

### Build Image
```bash
git clone https://github.com/AI-Robot-Book-Humble/docker-ros2-desktop-ai-robot-book-humble
cd docker-ros2-desktop-ai-robot-book-humble
./build.bash
```

### Run on Linux/macOS
#### Pull Image
```bash
./arb-pull.bash
```

#### Start Container
```bash
./arb-run.bash
```

### Run on Windows
Pull Image)
```bash
arb-pull.bat
```

### Start Container
```bash
arb-run.bat
```
### Using Desktop Environment

#### Using Web Browser
Open: http://127.0.0.1:6080
Password: ubuntu

#### Using VNC Viewer
Connect to: 127.0.0.1:15900
Password: ubuntu

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 📦 Installation & Setup

### 1. Clone the repository

Clone this repo inside the `src` folder of your ROS 2 workspace (usually
named `ros2_ws`):

``` bash
cd ~/ros2_ws/src
git clone https://github.com/your-username/your-repo-name.git
```

### 2. Build the workspace

Once cloned, build the workspace using `colcon`:

``` bash
cd ~/ros2_ws
colcon build
```

### 3. Source the setup file

After building, don't forget to source your workspace:

``` bash
source install/setup.bash
```

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 🚀 Usage

Each package in this repository demonstrates a different **basic ROS 2
concept**.\
After sourcing, you can run the nodes using:

``` bash
ros2 run <package_name> <node_name>
```

For example:

``` bash
ros2 run my_first_package talker
ros2 run my_first_package listener
```

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 📚 What You'll Learn

-   How to create and build ROS 2 packages\
-   Writing simple publishers and subscribers\
-   Using `colcon` for building workspaces\
-   Running ROS 2 nodes

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 📝 Notes

-   This repository is meant for **ROS 2** (please confirm your version,
    e.g., Foxy, Humble, etc.).

-   Make sure you have sourced your ROS 2 installation before building:

    ``` bash
    source /opt/ros/<distro>/setup.bash
    ```

-   Replace `<distro>` with your ROS 2 distribution (e.g., `humble`).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 🤝 Contributing

Feel free to open issues or submit pull requests if you find bugs or
want to add more beginner-friendly examples.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 📖 References

-   [ROS 2 Documentation](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/)\
-   [Colcon Documentation](https://colcon.readthedocs.io/)

Commit message:

Clarify ROS version and course details in README
Updated introduction to specify ROS 2 and course context.

README.md, after:

# Introduction to ROS -- Basic Examples

This repository contains **basic ROS (Robot Operating System) code** to help beginners get started with ROS concepts such as nodes, topics, and packages.  
The code is intended as an introduction for students learning **ROS 2** for the first time, 
and is used in the online course I taught on **Robotics and Robot Operating Systems** at [TUXSA](https://www.skilllane.com/courses/tuxsa-Robotics-and-Robot-Operating-Systems).  
The examples are tested on **ROS 2 Humble**.  

👉 It is recommended to run these examples using Docker:  
[AI-Robot-Book-Humble/docker-ros2-desktop-ai-robot-book-humble](https://github.com/AI-Robot-Book-Humble/docker-ros2-desktop-ai-robot-book-humble)

---

## Setup Instructions

### Build Image
```bash
git clone https://github.com/AI-Robot-Book-Humble/docker-ros2-desktop-ai-robot-book-humble
cd docker-ros2-desktop-ai-robot-book-humble
./build.bash
```

### Run on Linux/macOS
#### Pull Image
```bash
./arb-pull.bash
```

#### Start Container
```bash
./arb-run.bash
```

### Run on Windows
Pull Image)
```bash
arb-pull.bat
```

### Start Container
```bash
arb-run.bat
```
### Using Desktop Environment

#### Using Web Browser
Open: http://127.0.0.1:6080
Password: ubuntu

#### Using VNC Viewer
Connect to: 127.0.0.1:15900
Password: ubuntu

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 📦 Installation & Setup

### 1. Clone the repository

Clone this repo inside the `src` folder of your ROS 2 workspace (usually
named `ros2_ws`):

``` bash
cd ~/ros2_ws/src
git clone https://github.com/your-username/your-repo-name.git
```

### 2. Build the workspace

Once cloned, build the workspace using `colcon`:

``` bash
cd ~/ros2_ws
colcon build
```

### 3. Source the setup file

After building, don't forget to source your workspace:

``` bash
source install/setup.bash
```

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 🚀 Usage

Each package in this repository demonstrates a different **basic ROS 2
concept**.\
After sourcing, you can run the nodes using:

``` bash
ros2 run <package_name> <node_name>
```

For example:

``` bash
ros2 run my_first_package talker
ros2 run my_first_package listener
```

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 📚 What You'll Learn

-   How to create and build ROS 2 packages\
-   Writing simple publishers and subscribers\
-   Using `colcon` for building workspaces\
-   Running ROS 2 nodes

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 📝 Notes

-   This repository is meant for **ROS 2** (please confirm your version,
    e.g., Foxy, Humble, etc.).

-   Make sure you have sourced your ROS 2 installation before building:

    ``` bash
    source /opt/ros/<distro>/setup.bash
    ```

-   Replace `<distro>` with your ROS 2 distribution (e.g., `humble`).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 🤝 Contributing

Feel free to open issues or submit pull requests if you find bugs or
want to add more beginner-friendly examples.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 📖 References

-   [ROS 2 Documentation](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/)\
-   [Colcon Documentation](https://colcon.readthedocs.io/)
